---


---

<h1 id="abstract">Abstract</h1>
<p>Prooftoys is an interactive deductive tool with a true<br>
visual interface, written in JavaScript<br>
to run in modern web browsers.  It is the result<br>
of the author’s belief that it is time for<br>
computer tools to become a welcome replacement for<br>
pencil and paper in in basic mathematical reasoning<br>
and problem-solving.</p>
<p>As a consequence, the design of Prooftoys has been<br>
driven by an overriding concern for simplicity and<br>
a less difficult learning process, including a high degree of compatibility<br>
with presentations of mathematical<br>
concepts in high school and lower-level college textbooks.</p>
<p>This paper summarizes the system and its use.</p>
<h1 id="system-structure">System structure</h1>
<h2 id="mathematical-content">Mathematical content</h2>
<ul>
<li>Underlying logic with simple definition capability</li>
<li>Convenience layer of inference techniques and logic facts</li>
<li>Axioms for the real numbers as the complete ordered field</li>
<li>Convenient real number facts</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="inference-engine">Inference engine</h2>
<ul>
<li>Parsing</li>
<li>Logical kernel</li>
<li>Functions for derived rules</li>
<li>Metadata</li>
<li>Fact registration and lookup</li>
<li>Tautology checking</li>
<li>Basic one-way matching to find eligible rewrites</li>
<li>Simplification</li>
</ul>
<p>Axioms apply to values of all types</p>
<p>Varies slightly from Q0, but same theorems</p>
<h2 id="user-interface">User interface</h2>
<ul>
<li>Proof display with ability to “drill down” into steps to<br>
all levels of detail</li>
<li>Elision of assumptions and repeated left sides of equivalences</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="automation">Automation</h2>
<h2 id="proof-editing">Proof editing</h2>
<ul>
<li>“Point and click” selection – of steps and arbitrary terms</li>
<li></li>
<li>Simple editing of existing proof, with deletion and inlining of details</li>
</ul>
<h1 id="the-logic">The logic</h1>
<p>Simple type theory</p>
<h2 id="notation">Notation</h2>
<p>Avoiding presentation of types, using “ind”.</p>
<h1 id="the-real-numbers">The real numbers</h1>
<h1 id="the-implementation">The implementation</h1>
<p>Axioms, definition, rule of inference.</p>
<p>Derived rules of inference</p>
<h2 id="rewriting">Rewriting</h2>
<p>Explicit with equations and equivalences; implicit with theorems.</p>
<h2 id="convenient-inference">Convenient inference</h2>
<h2 id="facts">Facts</h2>
<h2 id="simplification">Simplification</h2>
<h1 id="user-interface-1">User interface</h1>
<p>Selecting, drilling down.<br>
Viewing proofs</p>
<h2 id="menu">Menu</h2>
<h2 id="matching">Matching</h2>
<h1 id="sample-applications">Sample applications</h1>
<p>System is self-applied to implement derived rules of inference.</p>
<p>Individuals aspire to relate better to mathematics.</p>
<h2 id="logic-facts">Logic facts</h2>
<p>All from logical axioms.</p>
<p>Some layering.</p>
<h2 id="real-number-facts">Real number facts</h2>
<p>From axioms of complete ordered fields.</p>
<h1 id="comparison-with-other-tools">Comparison with other tools</h1>
<p>Metamath, Mizar, (no tactic proofs)</p>

