# Abstract 

Prooftoys is a web-based visual proof assistant, written in JavaScript
to run in modern web browsers.  It is the result
of the author's belief that it is time for
computer tools to become a welcome replacement for
pencil and paper in in basic mathematical reasoning
and problem-solving.

As a consequence, the design of Prooftoys has been
driven by an overriding concern for simplicity and 
a less difficult learning process, including a high degree of compatibility
with presentations of mathematical
concepts in high school and lower-level college textbooks.

This paper summarizes the system, its logic, user interaction, and implementation.

*[Q0]: Q<sub>0</sub>

# System structure

## Mathematical content

- Higher-order logic with simple definition capability
- Convenience layer of logic facts 
- Axioms for the real numbers as the complete ordered field
- Convenient real number facts
- User-level inference based mainly on rewriting

The logic is based on
[Alonzo Church's simple type theory](http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/type-theory-church/)
as developed by [Peter Andrews](http://gtps.math.cmu.edu/andrews.html)
under the name [Q<sub>0</sub>](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Q_zero).

Prooftoys has the same theorems as Q0, and essentially the same axioms.
with slight extensions to enable the boolean operators other than equality
to be defined by their truth tables.

## Inference engine

- Parsing
- Logical kernel
- Functions for derived rules
- Metadata
- Fact registration and lookup
- Tautology checking
- Basic one-way matching to find eligible rewrites
- Simplification

Axioms apply to values of all types

Varies slightly from Q0, but same theorems

## User interface

- Proof display with ability to "drill down" into steps to
  all levels of detail
- Elision of assumptions and repeated left sides of equivalences

## Automation

## Proof editing

- "Point and click" selection -- of steps and arbitrary terms
- 
- Simple editing of existing proof, with deletion and inlining of details

# The logic

Simple type theory

## Notation

Avoiding presentation of types, using "ind".

# The real numbers

# The implementation

Axioms, definition, rule of inference.

Derived rules of inference

## Rewriting

Explicit with equations and equivalences; implicit with theorems.

## Convenient inference

## Facts

## Simplification

# User interface

Selecting, drilling down.
Viewing proofs

## Menu

## Matching

# Sample applications

System is self-applied to implement derived rules of inference.

Individuals aspire to relate better to mathematics.

## Logic facts

All from logical axioms.

Some layering.

## Real number facts

From axioms of complete ordered fields.

# Comparison with other tools

Metamath, Mizar, (no tactic proofs)


<!--stackedit_data:
eyJwcm9wZXJ0aWVzIjoiZXh0ZW5zaW9uczpcbiAgcHJlc2V0Oi
BkZWZhdWx0XG4gIG1hcmtkb3duOlxuICAgIGJyZWFrczogZmFs
c2VcbiAgICBzdWI6IHRydWVcbiAgICBzdXA6IHRydWVcbiIsIm
hpc3RvcnkiOls4NDY4NzIxNDUsMzAzMzM3NjQ0LDU5Nzc4MTU5
Myw4MTA3OTY3MjMsLTIwNzI3OTE4NTcsMTMyOTI0OTU4MSwtMT
cyMDQ2OTIwM119
-->